---
layout: single
title:  "Level 1: Angular 5+ Gotchas"
date: 2017-12-27 16:08:48
header:
  image: /assets/level-1-splash.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@nxvision**](https://unsplash.com/@nxvision)"
categories: musings
permalink: /posts/level-1
---

At work, we're architecting the future path of our front-end stack. A few months ago, we decided on Angular after running POCs against React, Vue, and Angular itself. There are a few reasons why we ended up where we did, but everyone's entitled to their own opinions.

While working on Angular, I discovered a few gotchas that I thought deserved some special attention. This post is a collection of my findings.

> `Constructor` vs. `ngOnInit`

On the surface, they do the same thing.

```TypeScript
constructor(private todoHTTPService: TodoHTTPService) { 
    this.todoHTTPService.getTodos().subscribe((todos: Array<TodoJSON>) => { 
      this.todoJSON = todos; 
      todos.forEach(todo => this.transformedTodo.push(new TodoTitleStatus(todo.userId, todo.id, todo.title, todo.completed))); 
    });
}
```
has the same end result as

```TypeScript
ngOnInit() { 
    this.todoHTTPService.getTodos().subscribe((todos: Array<TodoJSON>) => { 
      this.todoJSON = todos; 
      todos.forEach(todo => this.transformedTodo.push(new TodoTitleStatus(todo.userId, todo.id, todo.title, todo.completed))); 
    });
}
```

**Constructor** is a typescript concept and, from a Java background, is meant for what is required to even instantiate the class. 

**ngOnInit** is Angular, and is called when Angular has finished constructing the component. It is called after the first `ngOnChanges()`.

[StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/35845554/angular-2-component-constructor-vs-oninit/35846307#35846307)

Generally, we try to keep the constructor as light as possible. It's a pain to set up tests for it and although I prefer to be as light on the Angular framework as possible, it doesn't seem right in this case.

All the initialization logic should go in the ngOnInit and only the dependency injection for the constructor.

> `Class` vs. `Interface` for Model definitions

In order to have well-ordered structure in your application, a good data model is essential. Without one, you're just playing in the sand with all the JSON like in angular.js. Lel (at least the way that we do it at work).

In terms of performance, both are lightweight. My understanding is that both classes and interfaces are able to shape JSON data into the model objects that we want them to be in. That being said, interfaces are removed from compilation while classes remain. If you have methods and/or private variables, use classes. If not, and if all you really need is to shape the data, interfaces are fine. 

[Github](https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/19632)