---
layout: single
title:  "Level 18: Macbook setup and Bash scripting fun, p2"
date: 2018-06-15 20:31:27
header:
  image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1507181179506-598491b53db4?ixlib=rb-0.3.5&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&s=299b6fae13eb39086f5bb28029c61760&auto=format&fit=crop&w=2689&q=80
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@jknapp**](https://unsplash.com/@jknapp)"
categories: dungeon-adventure
tags: macbook bash 
permalink: /posts/level-18
---

If you haven't read part 1, click [here]({% post_url 2018-06-15-level-18 %})! 

There were a few improvements from last time that I wanted to implement. 
1. Refactor each separate chunk of installations into separate files
2. Write more re-usable functions to be shared across sets of installs
3. Add more installations/basic features

Let's start with #3. In the first couple of commits, i added a few more integrations like slack, skype, etc etc. 

For #2, I had originally started with a 'get-it-done' mentality. Even if the code wasn't particularly pretty, I wanted to align to my basic design principle of idempotency. Because of that, I added quite a bit more fluff in terms of content than absolutely necessary. In the book, Clean Code, the author mentions that it takes a lot of refactoring to get to the "ideal" state. With that in mind, I tried to take it easier and just [code](https://github.com/eginwong/setup-macbook/commit/25770e6db1e932dc5cdcb731fabd590e5c0b43ba) and get everything down and functional. 

```bash
verify_cask() {
  if [[ $(brew cask list | grep $1 | head -c1 | wc -c) -eq 0 ]]; then
    echo ${1}":: not installed" | awk '{print toupper($0)}'
    $2
    verify_cask $1 $2
  else
    echo ${1}":: installed" | awk '{print toupper($0)}'
  fi
}
```

Even though I had a basic `verify_program` method, I created a separate one because the command to verify installations for bash versus casks were different. However, the general breakdown of the method was the same. In my main method, I use individual `install_X` methods to make my calls.

```bash
verify_cask slack install_slack
```

There is a really neat utility for statically analyzing sh scripts called [shellcheck](https://www.shellcheck.net/). There's an online version as well as one that can be used via terminal/brew. With this tool, I received some pointers on how I could make the code more robust. The snippet above became [this](https://github.com/eginwong/setup-macbook/commit/f280d4e9ef69c7cacd42c93bca6c4e81c2ab6f15):

```bash
verify_cask() {
  if "$1" -v | grep -q "no ${1}" || [[ $("$1" -v | head -c1 | wc -c) -eq 0 ]]; then
    echo "${1}:: not installed" | awk '{print toupper($0)}'
    verify_program "$1" "$2"
  else
      echo "${1}:: installed" | awk '{print toupper($0)}'
  fi
}
```

Note the quoting around the parameter substitutions, for more overtly clear indication of what substitution is happening.

The following [commit](https://github.com/eginwong/setup-macbook/commit/901bfc6ea53502842a072665355ec250453479e1) was more substantial because I made use of the array data structure in bash and iterated through the respective verify methods for each type of installation, hence achieving more re-usability. individual installation calls became:

```bash
brews=(
  ruby
  node
)

for BREW in "${brews[@]}" 
do 
  :
  verify_brew "$BREW"
done
```

That being said, all the code was in a mega script. The next [commit](https://github.com/eginwong/setup-macbook/commit/97b21ee8abdb11c90b783b641bb756f9eeaa8c3d) resolved this issue by chunking everything up into separate scripts that are grouped by the type of installation, ie. brews.sh, casks.sh, alias.sh. This led to a much nicer view of the main script:

```bash
main() {
  # import other scripts
  . lib/alias.sh
  . lib/brews.sh
  . lib/casks.sh

   # create main working folder
   cd ~ || exit
```

For more functionality, I also included some fancy ruby gems as well as a more extensive list of vscode extensions.

Otherwise, sorry for the short post. A lot of real-life happening these past two weeks but I'll be back with more soon.
As always, the code can be found on my GitHub, [here](https://github.com/eginwong/setup-macbook).