---
layout: single
title:  "Level 22: Node.js initial thoughts"
date: 2018-09-23 17:17:17
header:
  image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1507394312553-c3975246cf9d?ixlib=rb-0.3.5&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&s=2ef1787892b9a5e2e0d53eae7b19313c&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1050&q=80
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@sebkln**](https://unsplash.com/@sebkln)"
categories: dungeon-adventure
tags: javascript frontend web node 
permalink: /posts/level-22
---

# Node js initial thoughts

I've recently switched jobs (woo) and with that comes a lot of change. It is in the consulting field, so I view myself as a mercenary tasked to solve business problems and earn $$$ for the company. As it is, I get to learn a lot of different tech stacks and paradigms as I hone my marketable skills. For the time being, I'm on the bench (read: not on a client project). This week I got a chance to peruse **node.js**.

A few thoughts:
* Event-driven non-blocking architecture is pretty cool. I had to look up an article on [SO](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34855352/how-in-general-does-node-js-handle-10-000-concurrent-requests) to explain the concept, but it seems that single-threaded architectures are better for I/O bound workloads and not CPU-bound ones. A really great explanation of the concept is thinking about having many waiters (threads) taking orders and focusing on executing just that one order (multi-threaded) versus a single waiter taking everyone's orders and processing them all at the same time, waiting on notifications from the kitchen for next steps (single-thread events)

* The code that I've seen is pretty straightforward. There are a bunch of listeners and emitters, and that's it. `socket.on('someEvent', function() => {});` and `socket.emit('someEvent')`

Honestly, haven't learned all that much yet. I'll throw in some more thoughts later.