---
layout: single
title:  "Level 8: Notes on Don't Make Me Think, by Steve Krug"
date: 2018-02-11 16:39:16
header:
  image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1506784926709-22f1ec395907?ixlib=rb-0.3.5&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&s=c0a516c606e1fb3b60fff20fe5e88c2e&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1948&q=80
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@esteejanssens**](https://unsplash.com/@esteejanssens)"
categories: musings
tags: UX accessibility front-end design
permalink: /posts/level-8
toc: true
toc_label: "What's up, doc?"
---

Preamble: I had the pleasure of reading this famous UX book over the weekend and it was a nice look into the world of UX/UI design and what it means to keep things simple. Worth a read for anyone in the Web business as it's quite short and approachable. All credit goes to Steve for all these wonderful ideas.

The following is a write-up of my notes!

# Don’t Make Me Think, Revisited, 3rd Edition

**Usability**: 
> “A person of average (or even below average) ability and experience can figure out how to use the thing to accomplish something without it being more trouble than it’s worth”.

## Krug’s first law: “Don’t make me think!” 

* Reduce the cognitive load on the user as much as possible
* Self-evident > Self-explanatory > Crap

We can scan pages, not read. Users only see what they want to see - they’re trying to accomplish some goal.

We satisfice because we’re in a rush and low cost of being wrong when we guess

* Use conventions when possible. 
* Visual hierarchies for importance and relations
* Break sections into clearly defined areas, help user ignore unnecessary load
* Use headings, proper formatting to know which heading relates to what
    * use bullets with space in between
    * no walls of text
    * Highlight key terms

### CLARITY TRUMPS CONSISTENCY

### Keep things as mindless as possible

### Omit needless words

## Navigation:
* tells us what’s here
* How to use the site
* Confidence in who built it
* Need Site ID, utilities, search, and sections
* No need to be as subtle w/visual cues as people often overlook in rush
* Print out the page and hold it at length and see if you can quickly identify key elts [site id, page name, sections, local nav, you are here indicator, and search]

#### Needs for good home pages:
* Site identity and mission
* Site hierarchy
* Search
* Teases
* Content promos
* Timely content
* Questions:
    * What is this? What do they have? What can I do here? Why here and not elsewhere? Where do I get started?
* GET THE MAIN POINT ACROSS, EVEN IF IT’S OBVIOUS TO YOU
* Tagline is something that no one else in the world could use except you, 6-8 words

### Testing:
* Do more and throughout. Focus groups for getting the abstract idea across
* Interesting to read a transcript of a usability test

### Mobile:
* Makes design even more about constraints vs tradeoffs
* No hover lol
* Focus on memorability, and learnability

## Take-aways:
* Use large low-contrast type or small high-contrast type
