---
layout: single
title:  "Level 20: The value of completion"
date: 2018-08-04 15:28:48
header:
  image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1517921150947-b52dd0a87619?ixlib=rb-0.3.5&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&s=3c96dfa32d7afe382d9b81dc8beca1cb&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1947&q=80
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@steve_j**](https://unsplash.com/@steve_j)"
categories: musings
tags: thoughts
permalink: /posts/level-20
---

## The value of doing
It's been a while since my last post, and things have continued to remain extremely busy in my life. That being said, I wanted to write about the importance and value of completing and abandoning work.

Just like in those old school kung fu movies from my childhood, there are certain skills and talents that don't get fully developed until you undergo hardship and difficulty. It is in that sense that I believe talking about completion is important. It's so easy now-a-days to start something and drop off. There are myriads of distractions, of cooler things, and of just about anything that can grab our attention and tempt us with easy satisfaction. 

Regarding school, personal projects, or even challenges in work and in life - it's easy to quit. And we should when we don't see the point of what we're doing, and we shouldn't force certain ideas or moments. **However**, certain things should not be skipped. We are built and made to trudge through some amount of a burden - it's what makes us stronger in the face of adversity. 

Oftentimes, when I'm tasked with public speaking, my brain shuts off. I stop feeling, thinking, and instantly turn into a reactive automaton. "How have I handled these situations in the past? What does my mental neural network say I should do in these situations?". If you've ever had one of these out-of-body experiences, you'd understand. Some psychologists call this state of being *flow*. But flow doesn't develop immediately and it needs a lot of training and previous experiences to build up.

I apologize for the haziness of this message. In summary, it's fine to quit but there are certain hard-to-acquire goals in life that just require work and lots of it. There are often no easy shortcuts but you'll find that there's a lot to attain and celebrate at the summit and summation of that trudgery. 

Quick brain fart today, write to you soon!