---
layout: single
title:  "Level 2: Moar Jekyll"
date: 2018-01-01 20:41:56
header:
  image: /assets/level-2-splash.jpg
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@igormiske**](https://unsplash.com/@igormiske)"
categories: dungeon-adventure
tags: two-timer
permalink: /posts/level-2
---

I still have no idea what I'm doing with jekyll.

I'll be working on the landing page and setting up pages and proper links today. The goal is to set up a nice little landing page, that links to different kinds of posts on varying topics. But, in order to do that, I want to set up the pages themselves, first. They'll be a bit barebones to start, but it'll make sense.

After reading some more documentation, I've added the following into the `config.yml` file, under the default section:
```yaml
  # _pages
  - scope:
      path: ""
      type: pages
    values:
      layout: single
      author_profile: true
```

I've also added the `_pages` directory and added an `about.md` file in there. I've also added the stock `year-archive.html` file from minimalmistakes. Afterwards, I included the `_data/navigation.yml` so I can get the header links working. Mucho important!

After altering the navigation file and turning on the search functionality from within the `config.yml`, things are running pretty smoothly. I'll be filling in some of the info blanks now.

I decided with using an archive list for posts as opposed to the categories one. I think that having both would be overkill in the navigation header, especially as I also have one for recent posts. One day, I'll add some demos for my own projects, but that will come later.

Time check: 2018-01-02 11:01:55
{: .notice}

So far, I have navigation, search, and the about page complete.

The last bit is the splash page, which will take more time to properly design. I threw together some stock images and added some text, included some formatting and voila, the site is live. :smile:

p.s. Welcome to the new year, also.