---
layout: single
title:  "Level 23: On appreciation, and myriad of things"
date: 2018-10-14 17:47:17
header:
  image: https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1538558283194-499824d3faee?ixlib=rb-0.3.5&ixid=eyJhcHBfaWQiOjEyMDd9&s=77543db1e442be95741a29ab1a6eebb8&auto=format&fit=crop&w=1050&q=80
  caption: "Photo credit: [**@rawpixel**](https://unsplash.com/@rawpixel)"
categories: personal
tags: self-awareness gratitude 
permalink: /posts/level-23
---

# Appreciation and Gratitude

Warning: this post is entirely a musing.
{: .notice}

I have become complacent once again. In the past, I would have instinctively been disappointed in myself and strive for more. Today, I wonder - *what for*? What is *more* exactly? 

> Am I chasing a pipe dream?

In the past few months, I have had to come to terms with myself about exactly who I am and what my expectations are in life. Hoho, very type-A and methodical of me.

I have always chased after the notion of 100% productivity. That was one of my first understandings of how the world of adulthood functioned, and I thought it was straightforward enough. 

And then I had a few thought-provoking texts of which, one in particular, stands out. 

#### Le Petit Prince

for he had reminded me of the folly of adult behaviour. Why are we so often occupied with drabble and meaninglessness for the sake of **being** busy? Why is that even important? 

I realised that I had filled my days full of nonsensical tasks just to breathe a sigh of relief at the end of the day that I had not been unproductive and that I had _done_ something. That I had not wasted my life. 

... ... ... but maybe I did? What is the point of doing something if there is no long term goal and there's no meaning to it? I speak not of perceived meaning but actual, objective meaning. Alas, I fear there are certain actions and consequences we may never understand until we meet with our maker.

Until then, I have continued to keep myself in tension by striving not to waste my time. At the end of the day, empires, wealth, power - all come from the passage of time. And just as well, all are destroyed by it as well.

Maybe I need not work so hard. Maybe I just need to do the right things I am to be called to do.

> Again, maybe this is all another pipe dream?

I just have to be grateful for where I am today and keep my head up and go forward.