---
layout: single
title:  "Level 29: Year in review: 2019"
date: 2020-01-04 17:46:51
categories: personal
tags: year-in-review
permalink: /posts/level-29
---

# Long Hiatus

For a look at previous years, take a look at [2017]({% post_url 2018-01-04-level-3 %}) and [2018]({% post_url 2019-01-05-level-27 %}).

Sorry for the long time away. After writing for such a long time, I thought it was time to go on the hunt for new content. I'll be committing to another year of writing; look forward to new posts from me.

Looking at 2019:

It was my first year of: 
* being married!
* became Toastmasters president at Avanade.
* starting my Master's! That's exciting.
* learning how to slow down and manage burnout and desires.
* almost joining the Canadian Armed Forces.
* teaching Confirmation class.
* writing my first Azure certification (AZ-203). Currently en route to another (AZ-300).
* meeting a CEO in person.
* getting Sony-XM3s 🎧🎧🎧.
* going to my first ever NBA 🏀 game (Game 4 of the Raptors vs Bucks!)
* wearing an inflatable dinosaur suit!
* doing Movember.
* Dear Evan Hansen with my wife.
* winning a foosball tournament!
* hosting a foosball tournament!
* watching Pulp Fiction for the first time.
* went axe throwing, lol. 

Some key events that stick out to me:
* shaving my head for Movember donations.
* flying to the States for client work for the first time.
* met clients in Toronto for brand-name companies. That was awesome.
* Node Interactive Summit conference attendee.

This year was impactful and served a lot of needs. I needed to establish a stronger foundation for my career and life going forward.

On to better and brighter.
